[Docs] Add ServiceMonitor section and make some step optional in Grafana & Promethus page (#53474)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/cluster/kubernetes/k8s-ecosystem/prometheus-grafana.md

Reviewer: Need to add `serviceMonitor` to line 37:
* Install the [kube-prometheus-stack v48.2.1](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/tree/kube-prometheus-stack-48.2.1/charts/kube-prometheus-stack) chart and related custom resources, including **PodMonitor** and **PrometheusRule**, in the namespace `prometheus-system` automatically.

Author: Added!

```

* KubeRay provides an [install.sh script](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/install/prometheus/install.sh) to:
  * Install the [kube-prometheus-stack v48.2.1](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/tree/kube-prometheus-stack-48.2.1/charts/kube-prometheus-stack) chart and related custom resources, including **PodMonitor**, **ServiceMonitor** and **PrometheusRule**, in the namespace `prometheus-system` automatically. 

>   * Import Ray Dashboard’s [Grafana JSON files](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/tree/master/config/grafana) into Grafana using the `--auto-load-dashboard true` flag. If the flag isn't set, the following step also provides instructions for manual import.

Reviewer 2: Nit: can we link the `following step` to step 12?

## Step 3: Install a KubeRay operator

* Follow [this document](kuberay-operator-deploy) to install the latest stable KubeRay operator via Helm repository.

> * To enable the ServiceMonitor when installing the KubeRay operator with helm use the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Set `metrics.serviceMonitor.enabled=true` when installing the KubeRay operator with Helm to create a ServiceMonitor that scrapes metrics exposed by the KubeRay operator's service.
```

  ```sh
  helm install kuberay-operator kuberay/kuberay-operator --version 1.4.0 \
    --set metrics.serviceMonitor.enabled=true

>   ```

Reviewer 3: Add an instruction to verify whether the ServiceMonitor is created correctly.

  # raycluster-kuberay-worker-workergroup-5stpm   1/1     Running   0          3h16m
  ```

## Step 7: Collect KubeRay metrics with ServiceMonitor

Starting with KubeRay 1.4.0, KubeRay provides a [ServiceMonitor](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/config/prometheus/serviceMonitor.yaml) to help Prometheus discover and scrape KubeRay metrics.

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  labels:
    # `release: $HELM_RELEASE`: Prometheus can only detect ServiceMonitor with this label.
    release: prometheus
  name: kuberay-operator-monitor
  namespace: prometheus-system
spec:
  # Only select Kubernetes Services in the "default" namespace.
  namespaceSelector:
    matchNames:
      - default
  # Only select Kubernetes Services with "matchLabels".
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: kuberay-operator
  endpoints:
    - port: http
      path: /metrics
      # honorLabels ensures that Prometheus uses the labels provided by the exporter
      honorLabels: true

```

> * Same as PodMonitor, the **install.sh** script also creates the above YAML example, [serviceMonitor.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/config/prometheus/serviceMonitor.yaml) so you don't need to create anything.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Same as PodMonitor, the **install.sh** script also creates the [serviceMonitor.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/config/prometheus/serviceMonitor.yaml) shown above,  so there's no need to create it manually.
```

* See the official [ServiceMonitor doc](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/main/Documentation/api-reference/api.md#servicemonitor) for more details about configurations.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* KubeRay Operator provides metrics for RayCluster, RayService, and RayJob, see the [KubeRay Metrics References](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/cluster/kubernetes/k8s-ecosystem/metrics-references.html) for more details.
```
We can point users to the KubeRay Metrics References doc so user know where to find the available metrics.

  ```

## Step 7: Collect KubeRay metrics with ServiceMonitor

Starting with KubeRay 1.4.0, KubeRay provides a [ServiceMonitor](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/config/prometheus/serviceMonitor.yaml) to help Prometheus discover and scrape KubeRay metrics.

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  labels:
    # `release: $HELM_RELEASE`: Prometheus can only detect ServiceMonitor with this label.
    release: prometheus
  name: kuberay-operator-monitor
  namespace: prometheus-system
spec:
  # Only select Kubernetes Services in the "default" namespace.
  namespaceSelector:
    matchNames:
      - default
  # Only select Kubernetes Services with "matchLabels".
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: kuberay-operator
  endpoints:
    - port: http
      path: /metrics
      # honorLabels ensures that Prometheus uses the labels provided by the exporter
      honorLabels: true

```
* Same as PodMonitor, the **install.sh** script also creates the [serviceMonitor.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/config/prometheus/serviceMonitor.yaml) shown above,  so there's no need to create it manually.

> * For production, you can enable the ServiceMonitor when installing the KubeRay operator by setting `metrics.serviceMonitor.enabled=true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For production, you can enable the ServiceMonitor when installing the KubeRay operator by setting `metrics.serviceMonitor.enabled=true`. See [values.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/helm-chart/kuberay-operator/values.yaml) for more details.
```

> * For production, you can enable the ServiceMonitor when installing the KubeRay operator by setting `metrics.serviceMonitor.enabled=true`. See [values.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/helm-chart/kuberay-operator/values.yaml) for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For production, you can enable the ServiceMonitor when installing the KubeRay operator by setting `metrics.serviceMonitor.enabled=true`. See [values.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/e80e84be901102be1822c4d36f3475e59a35b21a/helm-chart/kuberay-operator/values.yaml#L92) for more details.
```
Would pointing to a specific line in a specific git hash be more accurate?

Reviewer 2: I think the hash of the current master branch would work?

  # raycluster-kuberay-worker-workergroup-5stpm   1/1     Running   0          3h16m
  ```

> ## Step 7: Collect KubeRay metrics with ServiceMonitor

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Step 7: Scrape KubeRay metrics with ServiceMonitor
```

> Installing the KubeRay operator automatically creates a ServiceMonitor to help Prometheus discover and scrape KubeRay metrics. You can verify the ServiceMonitor creation with:

Reviewer 3: Remove it.

```sh
kubectl get servicemonitor -n prometheus-system

# Example output:
# NAME                                                 AGE
# kuberay-operator-monitor                             53m
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  labels:
    # `release: $HELM_RELEASE`: Prometheus can only detect ServiceMonitor with this label.
    release: prometheus
  name: kuberay-operator-monitor
  namespace: prometheus-system
spec:
  # Only select Kubernetes Services in the "default" namespace.
  namespaceSelector:
    matchNames:
      - default
  # Only select Kubernetes Services with "matchLabels".
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: kuberay-operator
  endpoints:
    - port: http
      path: /metrics
      # honorLabels ensures that Prometheus uses the labels provided by the exporter.
      honorLabels: true

```

> * Same as PodMonitor, the **install.sh** script also creates the [serviceMonitor.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/config/prometheus/serviceMonitor.yaml) shown above, so you don't need to create it manually.

Reviewer 3: Delete L271 - L276

    * Case 2: Otherwise, import the JSON files from the head Pod's `/tmp/ray/session_latest/metrics/grafana/dashboards/` directory. You can use `kubectl cp` to copy the files from the head Pod to your local machine. `kubectl cp $(kubectl get pods --selector ray.io/node-type=head,ray.io/cluster=raycluster-embed-grafana -o jsonpath={..metadata.name}):/tmp/ray/session_latest/metrics/grafana/dashboards/ /tmp/`
  * Click "Import".

> ## Step 13: View metrics from different RayCluster CRs

Reviewer: We can add a new step to display the KubeRay Operator Dashboard once [this PR](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/3734) is merged. Thanks!

![Grafana Ray Dashboard2](../images/grafana_ray_dashboard2.png)

> ## Step 14: View KubeRay Operator dashboard

Reviewer 2: This looks great! One small suggestion—since some panels in the dashboard show "no data," would it be possible to create some sample CRs to populate them? I think that would make the screenshot more informative.

Author: Done!

> Once the KubeRay Operator dashboard is imported into Grafana, you can monitor metrics from the KubeRay operator. The dashboard provides a dropdown menu to filter and view controller runtime metrics for specific Ray CRs (`raycluster`, `rayjob`, `rayservice`).

Reviewer 2: nit
```suggestion
Once the KubeRay Operator dashboard is imported into Grafana, you can monitor metrics from the KubeRay operator. The dashboard provides a dropdown menu to filter and view controller runtime metrics for specific Ray CRs (`RayCluster`, `RayJob`, `RayService`).
```

> Once the KubeRay Operator dashboard is imported into Grafana, you can monitor metrics from the KubeRay operator. The dashboard provides a dropdown menu to filter and view controller runtime metrics for specific Ray CRs:`RayCluster`, `RayJob`, `RayService`.

Author: Sorry, I should run vale after applying suggestion on github.

> Once the KubeRay Operator dashboard is imported into Grafana, you can monitor metrics from the KubeRay operator. The dashboard provides a dropdown menu to filter and view controller runtime metrics for specific Ray CRs:`RayCluster`, `RayJob`, `RayService`.

Author: Left only one.

> Once the KubeRay Operator dashboard is imported into Grafana, you can monitor metrics from the KubeRay operator. The dashboard provides a dropdown menu to filter and view specific controller runtime metrics for different Ray CRs (`raycluster`, `rayjob`, `rayservice`).

Reviewer 2: `specific controller runtime metrics` is a little bit confusing to me. Are you saying `view controller runtime metrics for a specific Ray CR`?

![Grafana Ray Dashboard2](../images/grafana_ray_dashboard2.png)

## Step 14: View the KubeRay operator dashboard

> After importing the KubeRay Operator dashboard into Grafana, you can monitor metrics from the KubeRay operator. The dashboard includes a dropdown menu that lets you filter and view controller runtime metrics for specific Ray custom resources CRs: `RayCluster`, `RayJob`, and `RayService`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After importing the KubeRay Operator dashboard into Grafana, you can monitor metrics from the KubeRay operator. The dashboard includes a dropdown menu that lets you filter and view controller runtime metrics for specific Ray custom resources CRs: `RayCluster`, `RayJob`, and `RayService`.
```
```suggestion
After importing the KubeRay operator dashboard into Grafana, you can monitor metrics from the KubeRay operator. The dashboard includes a dropdown menu that lets you filter and view controller runtime metrics for specific Ray custom resources CRs: `RayCluster`, `RayJob`, and `RayService`.
```
